# Equipment

<!-- Economy: Use real-life value of items, multiply by 10 and round to nearest sensible integer. -->

All entries list the price for a single item. If more items can be bougth with
the provided price, the table shows the amount under the `#` column.

An item is made up by these statistics: Cost, Weight, and Bulk. Some items
require additional Acquisitions to be unlocked, maintained or bought.

If an item doesn't have a Weight specified it can be ignored, but it still uses
Bulk.

!!! tip "Assets"
    Some items count as Assets, which can be used to provide a bonus on a
    **Task** rollfor related checks. Usually an item states if it's an Asset,
    but creative use can always turn other items into Assets as well!

## Credits

> [Credits](#credits) are a universal currency for buying most things.

All items cost [Credits](#credits), while some items may cost
[Resources](/character#resources-res) instead or in addition. This
[Resources](/character#resources-res) cost abstracts the maintenance of an item,
e.g. ammunition, cleaning, restocking etc.

Whenever there is a cost listed without units, then Credits are used.

## Weight

An item can specify its Weight. The Weight value indicates the minimum
[Might](/character#might-mi) needed to use the item. If this level of
[Might](/character#might-mi) is not met, the item cannot be used effectively in
combat.

If the Weight column shows zero or has no Weight, then its Weight can be
disregarded.

Using a normally one-handed item with two hands increases the level of
[Might](/character#might-mi) by one step.

!!! example "Weight Requirements"
    A one-handed wooden club specifies it's Weight as a [d8](#d8). The character
    only has a [d6](#d6) in [Might](/character#might-mi), so he uses the club in
    both hands increasing his [Might](/character#might-mi) to a [d8](#d8). For
    the purpose of wielding, attacking and dealing damage with the club, the
    character's [Might](/character#might-mi) is considered to be a [d8](#d8).

### Overburdened

Only items that are equipped, e.g. wielded weapons, worn armour and outfits,
etc. are subject to this rule. An item that's kept in the character's inventory
is not influencing the character.

An item's Weight exceeding the character's [Might](/character#might-mi) incures
penalties. For each step of the character's [Might](/character#might-mi) below
the item's Weight, the character's:

* [Speed](/character#speed-sp) is reduced by one level to a minimum of a
  [d4](#d4), and
* the character's [Parry](/character#parry) and [Defence](/crisis#defence)
  suffers -1.

!!! danger "Overburdened"
    All skills related to the [Speed](/character#speed-sp) Attribute that are
    higher than the new [Speed](/character#speed-sp) also drop to the new level.

## Bulk

An item that specifies it's Bulk takes up that much Inventory Space. Ten light
items specified by a Bulk value of **L** count as 1 Bulk. Some items' Bulk are
negligible; they do not list their Bulk value.

You can carry up an amount of Bulk equal to your [Might](/character#might-mi)
without penalty; if you carry more you gain the *Slowed* condition. You can't
hold or carry more Bulk than twice your [Might](/character#might-mi).

## Looting items

Usually looting only gives you [Loot](/character#loot). If you are looking for
certain items that, for example, your enemies may have, you can loot them
normally.This reduces the amount of [Loot](#loot) you recieve to a minimum of 0.

If a looted item requires [Resources](/character#resources-res) a character may
keep it. At the end of the session the character can spend his available
[Resources](/character#resources-res) on it to keep it.

If the character doesn't want to keep it or doesn't have enough
[Resources](/character#resources-res) to pay for the item at the end of the
current session, the item is lost.

## Equipment traits

An item *can* have additional traits, making them more unique.
