# Perks

Perks unlock Actions, improve stats or change roleplayining circumstances in a
positive way.

Any perk can only be picked once and costs at least 1 [INF][], unless otherwise
specified.

Perks are represented in the following way:

<div class="qs-list-test full-width p" markdown="1">

**Example Perk**{.hf} Description or benefit of the perk.

Requires
:   Requirements that have to be met in order for the perk to be available or
providing its benefits.

[INF][]
:   The [INF][] cost needed to unlock this perk. If this entry is omitted, the
perk costs 1 [INF][].

[AP][]
:   If the perk unlocks a new Ability, the [AP][] cost for this Ability is stated
here.

Multiple
:   If the perk can be picked multiple times, this value indicates how often it
can be picked.

</div>

!!! info "Available perks"
    Like any other RPG system, Q* provides the GM and player with a set of
    perks. Neither the system nor characters are limited to these perks: if
    you require different perks to suite your needs, then add them to your
    game.

!!! tip "[GM Tip] Acquiring perks"
    While perks state their requirements and costs, you as a GM can require
    additional things before a character can obtain a perk, i.e.:

    * find someone who can train you,
    * make acquiantances with important NPCs,
    * use [Skills][] related to the perk,
    * etc.

    Also, if the perk is not reasonable for a character at all, the perk simply
    isn't available.

## Requirements

Perks are restricted by [Attributes][], [Skills][], or other stats. [Races][] or
GM decisions providing perks ignore the requirement.

If a perk states an [Attribute][] or a [Skill][] requirement and either drops
below the requirement, the character loses the benefit of the perk---but not the
perk itself, in case the requirements are met once again.

## Character Perks

<div class="qs-list-test full-width" markdown="1">

##### Animal Friend

You can use the [Persuade][] Skill to tame animals that aren't hostile. Tamed
animals follow you and can do basic tasks, provided you feed them regularly. The
longer you have an animal, the more loyal it gets.

Requires
:   [Soul][] [d8][]

##### Beast of Burden

Your [Carrying Capacity][] increases by `2`.

Requires
:   [Body][] [d8][]

##### Healthy

You gain 5 additional [Health](/character/#health-hp) points.

Requires
:   [Body][] [d8][]

##### Light-footed

You receive a `+1` bonus on all [Stealth][] checks.

Requires
:   [Body][] [d8][]

##### Skill Focus

You receive a `+1` bonus on a [Skill][] of your choice.

Requires
:   [Skill][] [d8][]

##### Skill Master

You receive another `+1` bonus on a [Skill][] of your choice.

Requires
:   [Skill Focus](#skill-focus), [Skill][] [d10][]

##### Versatile

You gain 1 Skill Point.

Requires
:   [Mind][] [d6][]

</div>

### Acquisitions

<div class="qs-list-test full-width" markdown="1">

##### Resourceful

Increases your current and maximum [Resources][] by `1`.

Requires
:   [Mind][] [d8][]

##### Scientist

Increases your current and maximum [Technology][] by `1`.

Requires
:   [Mind][] [d8][]

##### Wealthy

Increases your current and maximum [Influence][] by `1`.

Requires
:   [Soul][] [d8][]

</div>

## Combat Perks

<div class="qs-list-test full-width" markdown="1">

##### Assassin

While sneaking and undetected by your target, you deal additional wounds,
provided the Attack hits your target. You deal extra damage equal to your
[Mind][].

Requires
:   [Stealth][] [d10][]

##### Blood rush

While your Health is below `50%`, your maximum [AP][] is increased by one, and
per round you recover an additional [AP][].

Requires
:   [Body][] [d8][]

##### Bloodthirsty

If you make a killing-blow with a melee weapon in a [Crisis](/crisis), you
immediatly gain 2 [AP][]. Can only trigger once per round.

Requires
:   [Melee][] [d8][]

##### Cleave

When you make a killing-blow with a melee weapon, you can make an individual
Attack against another enemy in range with the same kind of Attack for free.

Requires
:   [Melee][] [d8][]

##### Combat Reflexes

Once per round you can use the [Take Aim](/crisis#take-aim) Action at -1 [AP][]
cost.

Requires
:   [Light Weapons][] [d8][]

##### Disarm

You can use your [Melee][] Skill to disarm an opponent for 2 [AP][]. You and
your opponent roll on [Melee][]. If you have the same or more on the roll than
your opponent, the opponent drops the weapon.

Requires
:   [Melee][] [d8][]

##### Disarm - Snatch Weapon

When you successfully disarm an opponent, you can choose to take the opponent's
weapon instead. If you already have a weapon equipped, it's automatically
dropped when you snatch the weapon.

Requires
:   [Disarm](#disarm), [Melee][] [d10][]

##### Fighter

If [Parrying](/crisis#parrying) you can treat the amount of enemies within melee
range as one less.

Requires
:   [Melee][] [d8][]

##### Gunslinger

Draw any handheld weapon with -1 [AP][] cost.

Requires
:   [Body][] [d8][]

##### Lightning Reflexes

When rolling for Turn Order, you receive a `+2` bonus on the roll.

Requires
:   [Melee][] [d8][]

##### Martial Arts Master

Your Attacks cost one [AP][] less when attacking unarmed.

Requires
:   [Melee][] [d12][]

[INF][]
:   2

##### Opportunist

When an enemy moves out of your melee range, and you wield a melee weapon, you
can make a melee Attack versus the enemy without any [AP][] cost. You cannot use
special Actions while doing so. Can only trigger once per round.

Requires
:   [Melee][] [d6][]

##### Precognitive

You have to use [Mind]][] instead of [Body][] for rolling on Turn Order.

</div>

--8<-- "_links.md"
