# Skills

> [Skills][] abstract your character's education, hobbies and fields of expertise.

Every character is defined by the following three categories of [Skills][].
While a character can have virtually *any* [Skill][], the categories list the
most common ones.

A Skill roll has to be equal to or higher than a **4** in order to succeed.
Skill rolls lower than a **4** fail. The GM can give your roll a bonus or
penalty based on circumstances.

A [Skill][] that is at a [d4](#d4) is considered **untrained**. Some [Skills][]
should only be usable if they are trained, indicated by a **"*"** next to their
name. These [Skills][] can still be used if untrained, but only for very basic
things.

Every 8 Character Points used in a single category improves the category's bonus
by one. If you make a Skill check you add the corresponding category's bonus to
the roll:

!!! example "Skill categories and Skills"
    A character has two [Action][] Skills at a [d12](#d12). The cost of
    improving those [Skills][] to a [d12](#d12) totals 8 Character Points. The
    character's bonus on [Action][] Skills is therefore 1. If he now makes an
    [Action][] Skill roll, he adds the category bonus to the roll:<br>
    <div class="formula formula-top formula-bottom">
        <span data-bracket-bottom="Acrobatics">1d4</span> +
        <span data-bracket-top="Action category">1</span>
    </div>

### Action

This category contains all [Skills][] that rely on might, speed, and have some
sort of physical interaction like running, swimming, climbing, shooting,
swinging a sword, etc.

<div class="qs-list-test full-width" markdown="1">

##### Acrobatics

is used for tumbling, dodging away from falling debris, balance over a rope,
*jump* in zero gravity environments etc.

##### Athletics

is used for climbing, jumping, running, swimming, etc.
<br>
Without this [Skill][] being trained, the character **cannot** swim.

##### Force

is used for breaching doors, break down treasure chests, holding doors shut etc.

##### Heavy Weapons*

is used when using heavy weapons such as rocket launchers, vehicle mounted
machine guns, or firing any vessel's weapons.

##### Light Weapons

is used for ranged weapon attacks with weapons like bows, pistols, lasguns, etc.

##### Melee*

is used when using melee weapons or parrying a melee attack.

##### Operate*

is used for driving, piloting or steering a vessel and remote controlling
drones.

##### Stealth

is used to hide from others, sneak around, lockpicking, etc.
<br>
It's opposed by the **Search** [Skill][].

</div>

### Knowledge

This category contains all [Skills][] that rely on education and intelligence,
like science, engineering, etc.

<div class="qs-list-test full-width" markdown="1">

##### Search / Track

is used to find and spot hidden things.

##### Engineering*

is used for repairing mechanical or electronical motors, operate advanced
machinery, etc.

##### Biology*

...

##### Chemistry*

...

##### Computer*

...

##### Linguistics*

is used to decipher scripts, forge documents, etc.

##### Medicine*

...

##### Politics*

...

</div>

### Social

This category contains all [Skills][] that rely on charisma and have some sort
of social interaction like bluffing, empathy, diplomacy, bartering,
intimidating, etc.


<div class="qs-list-test full-width" markdown="1">

##### Bartering

is mainly used for acquiring rare items in [Spare Time][] rolls, but it can also
be used in getting a better deal.

##### Bluffing

is used for lying. This [Skill][] is opposed by **Empathy**.

##### Command

is used to command crews, give orders on a vessel, lead others, etc.

##### Empathy

is used to determine if somebody is sad, lying, nervous, etc. It opposes
**Bluffing**.

##### Intimidate

is used to strike fear into somebody to get information, help, etc.

##### Persuade

is used to sweaten the deal for somebody to get information, help, etc.

##### Tactics*

is used to non-verbally communicate with party members in combat, tactically
breach into buildings or rooms, etc.

</div>

!!! tip "Intimidate and Persuade"
    The outcome of Intimidate and Persuade are often the same, but some people
    are easier to intimidate than to persuade, and vice versa.

--8<-- "_links.md"
