# Non-Player Characters

Most creature the GM is playing are Non-Player Characters (NPCs). NPCs reduce
the rule overhead to make it easier for the GM to manage multiple characters at
once.

A GM can however always create normal characters in place of NPCs to flesh them
out more.

!!! tip "[GM Tip] NPC Creation"
    This section outlines NPCs and how they're created. This is only a guideline
    to give you an idea how strong an NPC should be. You can create any NPC you
    can think of.

### Action Points

Instead of Action Points, NPCs use the Action system. An NPC can do any 2
Actions, such as Move, Attack, Sneak, etc. Left-over Actions are lost; they
cannot be accumulated over multiple rounds.

### Difficulty

Each creature has a difficulty of 1 to 10, 1 being very weak creatures, and 10
being really though ones. Average creatures have a difficulty of 4. Supernatural
creatures, demigods, etc. can even have a difficulty higher than 10.

## Race

Just as a player character, an NPC can have a race. Sometimes a race is only
used to distinquish NPCs, but they don't provide bonuses or penalties.

## Attributes

Each [Attribute][] of an NPC is at a [d4][].

Per Difficulty Level of the NPC, it receives an additional attribute point.

!!! summary "Attribute Points"
    <div class="formula formula-top formula-bottom">
        <span data-bracket-bottom="Base">2</span> +
        <span data-bracket-top="Base">Difficulty Level</span> ±
        <span data-bracket-bottom="Perks / Flaws / Race">Circumstance</span>
    </div>

## Traits, Perks & Flaws

An NPC can have between 0 and 2 [Traits][]. Every 2 Difficulty Levels, starting
at Difficulty Level 2, an NPC can pick a [Perk][]. An NPC can pick a [Flaw][] to
either:

* receive an attribute point,
* receive three skill points, or
* receive a perk.

## Skills

Each [Skill][] of an NPC is at a [d4][].

Per Difficulty Level of the NPC, it receives three additional skill points.

!!! summary "Skill Points"
    <div class="formula formula-top formula-bottom">
        <span data-bracket-bottom="Base">2</span> +
        <span data-bracket-top="Base">Difficulty Level * 3</span> ±
        <span data-bracket-bottom="Perks / Flaws / Race">Circumstance</span>
    </div>

## Stats

### Health (HP)

!!! summary "Health"
    <div class="formula formula-top formula-bottom">
        <span data-bracket-bottom="Base">Difficulty Level</span>
        <span data-bracket-top="Base">x5</span> ±
        <span data-bracket-bottom="Perks / Flaws / Race">Circumstance</span>
    </div>

### Pace (PACE)

Each NPC has a specific Pace value. As a rule of thumb, stick to the [character
pace](/character/#pace-pace) rules unless an NPC should be faster or slower than
normal.

### Parry

!!! summary "Parry"
    <div class="formula formula-top formula-bottom">
        <span data-bracket-bottom="Base">2</span> +
        <span data-bracket-top="Base">Difficulty Level</span> ±
        <span data-bracket-bottom="Perks / Flaws / Race">Circumstance</span>
    </div>

### Perception (PER)

Some creatures receive a bonus to perception, e.g. dogs or cats, while others
suffer a penalty, e.g. ogers or trolls.

!!! summary "Perception"
    <div class="formula formula-top formula-bottom">
        <span data-bracket-bottom="Base">2</span> +
        <span data-bracket-top="Base">Difficulty Level</span> ±
        <span data-bracket-bottom="Perks / Flaws / Race">Circumstance</span>
    </div>

## Acquisitions

Just like characters, NPCs can have acquistions. Acquisitions allow a character
to use better gear---this is a guideline as to what difficulty of NPC should
have access to which gear.

!!! summary "Any Acquisition type"
    <div class="formula formula-top formula-bottom">
        <span data-bracket-bottom="Base">Difficulty Level</span> ±
        <span data-bracket-top="Perks / Flaws / Race">Circumstance</span>
    </div>

## Languages

Depending on the creature, it has no languages or an indefinite amount of
languages it can read, write and speak.

## Loot

An NPC can drop items, but doesn't have to. E.g. animals do not drop items, but
can be butchered for food, or skinned to make a profit later.

[Credits](/equipment#credits) only make a small portion of the loot, if any at
all. NPCs usually drop [LOOT][].

### Ammunition

NPCs that use some sort of ranged weapon drop ammunition. See [Looting
Ammunition](/equipment/#ammunition).

### Credits

Some NPCs might have Credits on them: the easiest kind of loot. You can loot all
their Credits without complications.

### Items

Items an NPC was using can also be looted. Depending on the combat, most items
can break however. See [Looting Equipment](/equipment/#equipment_1).

--8<-- "_links.md"
